Nine Yanas. The ninth is Atiyohas. That is what that is. Atiyohas. And Atiyohas is a synonym of Dzo
gchen practice.
And in the teaching always said, what is the nature of Dzogchen? Nature of Dzogchen.
Or that can be as what is the identity of Dzogchen.
And that in the teaching said, it is of discovering any Buddhism or any ordinal primordial wisdom
directly, directly discover that.
That ordinal primordial wisdom is inherited, our own nature, everyone's nature. That discover
instead.
So that is the nature or the identity of Dzogchen.
Now, what means Atiyohas? What means Dzogchen?
And also said, in the debate, it is Geeches, Mobo, Neeche.
Mobo and Geeches. Mobo. That is so Geeches.
Geeches means, what means the word meaning of the Atiyohas?
Atiyohas. Atiyohas is ultimate, ultimate or pinnacle.
Yoga means that yoga, observing or yoga can be translated also naturally.
The pinnacle of the natural or ultimate nature.
So that is Atiyohas, the word meaning.
Then Dzogchen means what? Dzogchen is very old, but Dzogchen means completed.
Completed or completed. And chen is great, great, completed.
What that means? Within the rupa, everything is completed.
Two accumulations are completed, samsara and nirvana are completed.
Everything, what we imagine, is all completed within the rupa.
Our own samsara or each of our own samsara is a rupa.
Each of our own marriages are in the rupa.
So samsara, nirvana, everything.
So this rupa is like in a way, and we use some other terminology.
It's just the biggest center. The biggest center, I quote.
Biggest I quote, right? You all know about this. I quote.
What? I, I-S-I-C-L-O-U-D.
I thought. I'm using modern techniques, what's called terminologies.
It's very latest. It's really true, really true. Rupa is the biggest center.
I close. Or biggest center, chips. Chips.
That complete, everything what we have experienced, what we go through,
is all displaced, everything. Yet there's no crowded, no kind of conditions.
That is what the rupa is.
So therefore, that is, that means zhoqin, that's it.
Everything is completed. All part, in the booming realization, everything is completed.
There's nothing else that we have to think about.
When you discover that nature, nature or our nature, we discover everything.
That's what is such a great masters. When they meditate, they just really meditate.
They meditate and not know anything, but they become such great knowledge holders.
Knowledge holders, because they discover. They are in it, all of us.
So that is, what's called, the world meaning of the ati yola or the zhoqin, a little bit.
Then, will, always, in the teachings, the will, will is, it's the same thing as identity we
discussed.
Will is the ordinal inheritance, call it, free from any extremes, free from any notions.
The ordinal nature of our own, in the nature of the mind.
Mind. That ordinal nature, again, if I use, I'm using like nature of the mind,
look by in the absolute Buddha, summon the Buddha, all those are really same.
What promote your wisdom? All this. So ordinal nature.
That is the will. There's nothing, nothing to focus, nothing to hold.
It's free from extremes, free from existing, non-existing, neither and either.
And beyond the conceptions, beyond the expressions, it's not the same as, like, as Pandyaparana.
Yet, in a zhoqin, emphasizing, emphasizing or not emphasizing, zhoqin is promote your wisdom,
not just blank emptiness, or talking, or not just, not, I should not say blank, but not just
emptiness.
Emptiness is triggered with great promote your wisdom and blessfulness.
That is the nature of our, the will, will of this.
And then, what we went to. Those are, we went last year breathing.
And then we went the division, divisions of the zhoqins.
Zhoqin division of the zhoqin teaching, then, I think, you know, this year we went to, those we
went through.
And three, three, mind sections of teaching, space section of the teaching, and with instructions
of the teachings.
And mind sections of teaching, we went more subdivisions, last years.
Those are seven different, I believe, subdivisions that we went through.
And then we went to the, again, subdivisions of the space sections.
We went about three or four subdivisions, we went.
And then at the yoga, we went, again, three more, more subdivisions, sorry, bit and stroke in
second, we went three more of them.
So those all are known as subdivisions of the zhoqin teachings, we went.
And then, how now we go to enter into the practices, how we, how we pursue that.
According to lineage, then, of course, you finish the Hindu practice, and all those like, kind of,
one after another,
and have really good foundation of the chamath and devotion, all those, that's it.
That I'm not going to mention, I mean, this has to be there, part of that, this is always there.
With that, and there is the empowerment.
Those are not empowerment known as the empowerment of power of the requests, requests are written
in the teaching system, right?
But this is empowerment, it's not just exactly the same as empowerment in a, in a Mahayoga and Anay
oga,
but it is empowerment that within the category of the court empowerment is highlight that, that,
and then take different stages.
So receive that empowerment.
Once you receive that empowerment, those, those, and then what is the upper, receive the
empowerment,
now how we're going to preserve and carry on, and going to discover our identity and nature.
Those are known as, then, Samayas.
Then we went, that was last year too, and this year we went Samayas.
And there is the Samaya, there is general Samaya, Pacific Samaya, and the very extraordinary Samaya
, or the Samayas.
Those are particular general Samayas related with the general Buddha teaching. Those are Papi Muk
has, or the Hinnajanas, Bodhisattvas,
and then in the Mahayanas, those, those.
And the Pacific related with the, in the Dandar related, those are known as then, known as the
general vows of the Samayas,
and then those are five Dayan Buddha vows, and they put in Dandras as big ones as we, we joined few
of those.
I mean those all we went through, and maybe we didn't go through that, but those are the least of
that.
But Pacifically we went, Pacific Samayas, they are very extraordinary Samayas.
Then we went, went, those are like 27 Samayas that, that have to be got guided,
got, and the four Samayas that don't have to guide that.
That means maintaining the awareness.
When you don't go, when we maintain the awareness in the Rupas, there is no subject or object.
Rupa is a total openness status. Maintain in that status, and then we went through, I think, quite,
quite the essential meaning of those four.
I got, you will know, I mean, that means maintain the Rupa. You maintain the Rupa.
But then there is nothing really to do that though. Four we went. So those are the four.
Then we went Pacifically about what is the Aprada. Aprada, Samayas, what in the teachings, the med
itations now.
When you come to the meditation, we spoke about, we discussed briefly about the, about the mind
sections of the meditation,
then we went, as in the teaching, we went quite detail, as the teaching about the, the, with
instructions, meditations.
We then, with instructions, meditations, divided into two groups, or there is two groups.
Those are the two meditations and the program meditations.
So we went, those again, one after another fight thoroughly, and generally, of course, you all know
those. You heard, we all heard this so here.
And first, recognizer of the Rupa, and the second, then, maintain it by the power of the pull, or
by the technique of the pull, or by the techniques, maintain it there.
So that was our essential meaning of the two practices.
Then, we went to the Toga practices. Toga practices, again, with the beautiful, motivated, all
those same, nothing really changed in here, anything there.
Then, we began to practice, started practicing it with those conditions, and the purification
practices, that you all know, we went there.
And then we listed, went to the, went to the pole light, or the six legs, six legs, one after
another, we listed.
Those are the inner wisdom.
Inner wisdom began to shine externally, reflecting back to us.
The Toga is the spiritual method to activate our inner wisdom, inner chaos, inner, or the
enlightenment qualities, expanded and it begins.
And then reflected back to you, or realistically, these all enlightened states.
And we say, "Look at all these three kinds of states." Everything is not just that way.
When we get enlightened, then we become three kinds.
The reality is, because we don't see enough, but you want it, that's it.
But otherwise, it's really enlightened states.
So we went, those, we did six legs, six legs, and lights.
When we practiced the six legs, or six legs, then what are the processes?
Process, what they're developing, those we discussed, pole regions.
And after another, we went pole regions.
Once we really achieved the pole regions, or in the time of the pole region practice, all these six
legs, or Toga practices,
then what kind of things we have to do?
And the teaching said, "Always be stable with three uncheckables."
Three uncheckables.
And three unmovable, or the unmovable.
Three uncheckable, three unmovable.
And this is slightly kind of, I mean, maybe, similar, but it's a little bit.
Mungo mam is not shaking, not shaking.
So three unmovable, not shaking.
And three, like, stable, that were makers, makers.
And then four, let's go this way.
Mungo mam is not shaking.